We have been hearing for some time that Gen. (then Col.) DuBose has stated that there was a cover-up and that the debris was swapped.  This sounds damning!

However....


Schmitt and Friedman went to interview DuBose in Aug 1990 when DuBose was almost 90 years of age. They used regressive hypnosis on him to try to "help" his 43 year old memories.

"If the hypnotist has beliefs about what actually occurred, it is exceedingly difficult for him to prevent himself from inadvertently guiding the subject's recall so that he (the subject) will eventually "remember" what he, the hypnotist, believes actually happened."
THE USE AND MISUSE OF HYPNOSIS IN COURT.  Doctor Martin Orne, past president of the International Society of Experimental Hypnosis, published in the International Journal of Clinical and Experimental Hypnosis.

Apparently Schmitt and Friedman didn't show the photos of the debris to DuBose when they interviewed him. Schmitt indicated that they asked DuBose if he had ever seen the real Roswell debris, and he answered with "a resounding NO!!!" Was the debris on Ramey's floor the debris from Roswell? DuBose answered "No."

But when Shandera interviewed DuBose, both by phone and in person, DuBose looked at the photos and stated that they were the debris that Marcel had brought with him from Roswell!

Remember, according to crash proponents, Marcel was supposed to have brought with him the "real" debris, and Ramey's office had then substituted the balloon debris for the press.

But if, as some have suggested, the balloon had been substituted for the "real" debris, no one has yet answered where Ramey got an ML-307 and rubber from a weather balloon that had been out in the sun for three weeks!

They weren't using ML-307s at FWAAF. They weren't using ML-307s at RAAF.
Brig. Gen. Donald Yates in a UP article dated July 8, 1947 stated that only a few of the targets "are used daily, at points where some specific project requires highly accurate wind information from extreme altitudes."
Warrant Officer Irving Newton recognized them from the Battle of Okinawa where they were used for gun laying- not from his experiences as a weatherman, since they were rarely used.
So if they were so rare and not in use in Ft. Worth and Roswell, where did "they" find parts of one that had been out in the sun for three weeks to substitute for the "real" debris?